Energy Resource Optimization Solution
=====================================

This folder contains the deployment instructions for the Energy Resource
Optimization solution in the Cortana Intelligence Gallery. To start a new
solution deployment, visit the gallery page .

Summary
-------

[RL edit begins] In an energy grid,energy consumers are engaged with various
types of energy supplying, trading, and storage components such as substations,
batteries, windfarms and solar panels, micro-turbines, as well as demand
response bids, to meet their respective demands and minimize the cost of energy
commitment. To do so, the grid operator must determine how much energy each type
of the resources should commit over a time frame, given the prices of soliciting
different types of resources and the capacities and the physical characteristics
of them.

This solution is built upon Cortana Intelligence Suite and external open-source
tools, and it computes the optimal energy unit commitments from various types of
energy resources. This solution demonstrates the ability of Cortana Intelligence
Suite to accommodating external tools, to solve parallelized numerical
optimization problems over an Azure Batch of Azure Virtual Machines.

Description
-----------

#### Estimated Provisioning Time: 30 Minutes

An energy grid consists of energy consumers, as well as various types of energy
supplying, trading, and storage components: Substations accepts power load or
exports excessive power; Batteries may discharge energy or store it for future
use; Windfarms and solar panels (self-scheduled generators), micro-turbines
(dispatchable generators), and demand response bids can all be engaged to
satisfying the demand from the consumers within the grid. The costs of
soliciting different types of resources vary, while the capacities and the
physical characteristics of each resource type limit the dispatch of the
resource. Given all these constraints, a central challenge the smart grid
operator must face, is how much energy each type of the resources should commit
over a time frame, so that the forecasted energy demand from the grid are
satisfied.

This solution provides an Azure-based smart solution, leveraging external
open-source tools, that determines the optimal energy unit commitments from
various types of energy resources for an energy grid. The goal is to minimize
the overall cost incurred by these commitments while satisfying the energy
demand. This solution demonstrates the ability of Azure to accommodating
external tools, such as [Pyomo](http://www.pyomo.org/) and
[CBC](https://projects.coin-or.org/Cbc), to solve large-scale numerical
optimization problems such as mixed integer-linear programming, parallelizing
multiple optimization tasks over an Azure Batch of Azure Virtual Machines. [RL
edit ends]

Solution Diagram
----------------

![Solution Diagram](media/4e3773954d0c3e17c508ba09f4639e44.shtml)

Solution Diagram

Technical details and workflow
------------------------------

1.  The sample data is streamed by newly deployed **Azure Web Jobs**.

2.  This synthetic data feeds into the **Azure SQL**, that will be used in the
    rest of the solution flow.

3.  The **Azure Machine Learning** service is used to optimize the energy supply
    of particular region given the inputs received.

4.  **Azure SQL Database** is used to store the optimization results received
    from the **Azure Machine Learning** service. These results are then consumed
    in the **Power BI** dashboard.

5.  **Azure Data Factory** handles orchestration, and scheduling of the hourly
    model retraining.

6.  Finally, **Power BI** is used for results visualization.

#### Disclaimer

Â©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. This information is provided
"as-is" and may change without notice. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or
implied, with respect to the information provided here. Third party data was
used to generate the solution. You are responsible for respecting the rights of
others, including procuring and complying with relevant licenses in order to
create similar datasets.
